---
layout: post
title: 2005 S1
tags: NPEE
---

The human nose is an underrated[^1] tool. Humans are often thought to be insensitive[^2] smellers compared with animals, <u>1 but</u> this is largely because, <u>2 unlike</u> animals, we stand upright[^3]. This means that our nose are <u>3 limited</u> to perceiving[^4] those smells which float through the air, <u>4 missing</u> the majority of smells which stick to surfaces. <!--more-->In fact, <u>5 thought</u>, we are extremely sensitive to smells, <u>6 even if</u> we do not generally realise it. Our noses are capable of <u>7 detecting</u> human smells even when these are <u>8 diluted</u> to far below one part[^5] in one million.  

[^1]: **underrate** /ʌndəˈreɪt/ v. [*with object*] (often as adj. **underrated**) <br> **underestimate** the extent / value / importance of sb / sth: *a very underrated film* <br>
[^2]: **insensitive** /ɪnˈsɛnsɪtɪv/ adj. <br> not sensitive to a physical sensation: *She was remarkably insensitive to pain.* <br> **OPP** **sensitive** /ˈsɛnsɪtɪv/ adj. quick to detect / respond to slight changes / signals / influences  
[^3]: **upright** /ˈʌprʌɪt/ adj. <br> (of a person) sitting / standing with the back straight: *an upright posture* <br> **PLUS** **upright** /ˈʌprʌɪt/ adj. strictly honourable / honest: *an upright / upstanding citizen* <br> **upstanding** /ʌpˈstandɪŋ/ adj. honest; respectable  
[^4]: **perceive** /pəˈsiːv/ v. [*with object*] <br> become aware of sth by the use of one of the senses, esp. that of sight: <br>  - *As humans, our five senses are basic ways through which we perceive the world.* <br>  - *We perceive our environment via our senses of smell, touch, taste, hearing, sight.*  
[^5]: **part** /pɑːt/ n. <br> a measure allowing comparison between the amounts of different ingredients used in a mixture; one of several equal or nearly equal divisions: <br>  - *mix two parts flour to one part water.  

Strangely, some people find that they can smell one type of flower but not another, <u>9 whereas</u> others are sensitive to the smells of both flowers. This may be because some people do not have the genes necessary to generate[^6] <u>10 particular</u> smell receptors[^7] in the nose. These receptors are the cells which sense smells and send <u>11 messages</u> to the brain. However, it has been found that even people insensitive to a certain smell <u>12 at first</u> can suddenly become sensitive to it when <u>13 exposed</u> to it often enough.  

[^6]: **generate** /ˈdʒɛnəreɪt/ v. [*with object*] <br> produce / create: <br>  - *generate energy / electricity / heat / power* <br>  - *generate revenue / profits / income / enormous interest* <br>  - *generate controversy / emotions / new ideas / employment opportunities*  
[^7]: **receptor** /rɪˈsɛptə/ n. <br> an organ / cell able to respond to light, heat, or other external stimulus and transmit a signal to a sensory nerve

The explanation for insensitivity to smell seems to be that the brain finds it <u>14 inefficient</u> to keep all smell receptors working all the time but can <u>15 create</u> new receptors if necessary. This may <u>16 also</u> explains why we are not usually sensitive to our own smells—we simply do not need to be. We are not <u>17 aware</u> of the usual smell of our own house, but we <u>18 notice</u> new smells when we visit someone else's. The brain finds it best to keep smell receptors <u>19 available</u> for unfamiliar and emergency signals <u>20 such as</u> the smell of smoke, which might indicate[^8] the danger of fire.  

[^8]: **indicate** /ˈɪndɪkeɪt/ v. [*with object*] <br> be a sign of; strongly suggest: <br>  -  A red sky at night often indicates fine weather the next day. <br>  - *Evidence came to light indicating that the train drivers involved took all possible actions to reduce the serious nature of the accident.*  

---

<table><tr><th>1</th><th>A.although</th><th>B.as</th><th>C.but</th><th>D.while</th></tr></table>

- **but** conj. <br> used to introduce a phrase / clause contrasting with what has already been mentioned; used to connect two statements / phrases when the second one adds sth different or seems surprising after the first one <br>  - *The food is cheap but delicious.* <br>  - *This is one principle, but it is not the only one.*  
- **while** conj. <br> 1. **whereas** (indicating a contrast); used to emphasise the difference between two situations, activities etc: <br>  - *One person wants out, while the other wants the relationship to continue.* <br>  - *While Tom's very good at science, his brother is absolutely hopeless.* <br> 2. in spite of the fact that; **although**: <br>  - *But while gay couples may be looking to settle down, some find life in Britain difficult.* <br>  - *The relationship, while exciting and original, had eventually become strained.*

<table><tr><th>2</th><th>A.above</th><th>B.unlike</th><th>C.excluding</th><th>D.besides</th></tr></table>

- **excluding** /ɪkˈskluːdɪŋ/ prep. <br> not taking sb / sth into account; except; not including

<table><tr><th>3</th><th>A.limited</th><th>B.committed</th><th>C.dedicated</th><th>D.confined</th></tr></table>

- **be limited to sth** <br> to exist / happen only in a particular place, group, or area of activity: <br>  - *Violent crime is not limited to big cities.* <br>  - C*lass sizes are limited to a maximum of 10.* <br>  - *The teaching of history should not be limited to dates and figures.*  
- **confine** /kənˈfʌɪn/ v. [*with object*] (**confine sb/sth to**)<br> keep / restrict sb / sth within certain limits of (space / scope / time) <br>  - *You've confined yourself to what you know.* <br>  - *Owen did not confine himself to writing only one type of poem.* <br>  - *Please confine (=restrict, limit) your comments to 200 words.* <br>  - *Resistance to the cuts will not be confined to parliamentary high politics.* <br>  - *The police cadet’s duties were confined to taking statements from the crowd.* <br>  - *The cancer was confined to the lung. (=the cancer was only in the lung; the cancer had not spread to any other parts of the body)* <br>  - *In this sense, popular culture functions as a trap to confine the imagination to stereotypical images of Indian people.* <br>

<table><tr><th>4</th><th>A.catching</th><th>B.ignoring</th><th>C.missing</th><th>D.tracking</th></tr></table>

- **ignore** /ɪɡˈnɔː/ v. [*with object*] <br> 1. refuse to take notice of or acknowledge; **disregard** intentionally: <br>  - *He ignored all the ‘No Smoking’ signs and lit up a cigarette.* <br>  - *We cannot afford to ignore their advice.* <br> **TIP** In everyday British English, people often say **take no notice of** sth or **not take any notice of** sth rather than **ignore** sth. <br> 2. fail to consider (sth significant): <br>  - *This is another example of a failed initiative that ignores the core questions.* <br>  - *The Bosnian government was accused of disregarding local legislation and ignoring human rights.* <br>

<table><tr><th>5</th><th>A.anyway</th><th>B.though</th><th>C.instead</th><th>D.therefore</th></tr></table>

- **though** /ðəʊ/ adv. <br> **however** (indicating that a factor qualifies or imposes restrictions on what was said previously): <br>  - *Our team lost. It was a good game though.* <br>  - *‘Have you ever been to Australia?’ ‘No. I'd like to, though.’* <br>  - *Much of it, though, is thought to be the work of a small number of individuals.* <br>  - *The fact that she is a woman, though, will surely influence the way she does the job.* <br> 

<table><tr><th>6</th><th>A.even if</th><th>B.if only</th><th>C.only if</th><th>D.as if</th></tr></table>

- **even if** <br> 1. despite the possibility that; no matter whether: <br>  - *Always try everything even if it turns out to be a dud.* <br>
  {% highlight javascript %} 'dud' /dʌd/ n. [informal] a thing that fails to work properly or is otherwise unsatisfactory or worthless {% endhighlight %} <br>  - *It is a unique gift that once given will always remain, even if the relationship ends.* <br> 2. despite the fact that; **even though**: <br>  - *He is a great President, even if he has many enemies.* <br>  - *My mother always did her best for me, even if there wasn't always enough to go around.* <br> `**go round** (*US* **go around**) (esp. of food) be sufficient to supply everybody present` <br>  - *Evolution is still a theory even though it is now taught in state schools as hard facts.* <br>  - *MPs are widely thought to be corrupt even though the vast majority of them are anything but.*

<table><tr><th>7</th><th>A.distinguishing</th><th>B.discovering</th><th>C.determining</th><th>D.detecting</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>8</th><th>A.diluted</th><th>B.dissolved</th><th>C.dispersed</th><th>D.diffused</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>9</th><th>A.when</th><th>B.since</th><th>C.for</th><th>D.whereas</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>10</th><th>A.unusual</th><th>B.particular</th><th>C.unique</th><th>D.typical</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>11</th><th>A.signs</th><th>B.stimuli</th><th>C.messages</th><th>D.impulses</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>12</th><th>A.at first</th><th>B.at all</th><th>C.at large</th><th>D.at times</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>13</th><th>A.subjected</th><th>B.left</th><th>C.drawn</th><th>D.exposed</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>14</th><th>A.ineffective</th><th>B.incompetent</th><th>C.inefficient</th><th>D.insufficient</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>15</th><th>A.introduce</th><th>B.summon</th><th>C.trigger</th><th>D.create</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>16</th><th>A.still</th><th>B.also</th><th>C.otherwise</th><th>D.nevertheless</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>17</th><th>A.sure</th><th>B.sick</th><th>C.aware</th><th>D.tired</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>18</th><th>A.tolerate</th><th>B.repel</th><th>C.neglect</th><th>D.notice</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>19</th><th>A.available</th><th>B.reliable</th><th>C.indentifiable</th><th>D.suitable</th></tr></table>

<table><tr><th>20</th><th>A.similar to</th><th>B.such as</th><th>C.along with</th><th>D.aside from</th></tr></table>



